sleep:: 7
tags:: #feltBad #cried #rant 
had my preboard 2 math exam. didn't prepare properly but still expected good results. think i may be slightly overconfident. i know i didn't prepare for it as well as i'd hoped to do but neglected to do it in practice, i still wanted a feeling of satisfaction of not preparing for something but getting it anyway. i should probably study instead of procrastinating so much but it seems to be a need i can't ever get over or quench. have to figure out how to get rid of it, considering quitting cold turkey doesn't seem to be working. i suppose it worked with instagram & snapchat in 8th grade, but even then, it was a case of truly understanding that missing a day of "streaks" and realising that not talking to those people that i barely had any emotions towards, that i merely spoke to them because i was bored, was a major, if not one of the only reasons i could quit. while i can still make a case of pros and cons for procrastinating with youtube and tumblr, it's never going to be a solid thing i can criticize. maybe i'll figure it out one day. i can't seem to get over me not doing well in my math exam. i want to move on but i keep feeling guilty, thinking about how if i'd checked my answers, if i'd checked my addition, if i'd thought about it more, it wouldn't have happened. but it's all crying over spilled milk, i can't do anything about it now, and thinking about it will not change any outcomes. i hope i can do better on my next exam. feel like i'm just waiting in life for something to happen, something to change, something to click in my brain. i don't think i've fully solidified in my head that i don't think that day'll ever come. feels like i'm spending my days waiting unbearably for something to happen.