what do you hope to learn?
what's something you'll try to do differently?
how do you feel about your classes (you can look back and re-evaluate at the end of term)
what's your "inventory" for school? (think like a videogame character, what's in your backpack that you can't live without)
set an intent for the spring term
list all required readings in one place (this hurt my hand so bad but worth it)
what's some habits you'd like to start?
how can you avoid burnout in the coming term?
write 10 ways you can be kind to yourself
page of your current study playlist (I like to print out and paste Spotify codes)
vision board (a classic)
reminders for you"rself
write "drink water" to fill an entire page because I KNOW so much of studyblr is dehydrated
what kind of person do you want to be?
what are the traits that should deﬁne you?
what do you love and how should it change you for the better?
what do you pour your soul into?
how do you let life impact you?
what do you want to do?
what traits do you want others to see?
what worries you most about the future?
what are you really scared of?
are you holding on to something you need to let go of?
what matters most in your life?
what do you think is worth remembering?
what do you want to remember?
what steps can you take to create memories worth remembering
and what are they?
what do you need to change about yourself?
what do you want to change about yourself? why?
does it really matter what others think about you? does it really
matter to you?
to what degree have you actually controlled the course your life is
taking?
when it’s all said and done, will I have said more than I’ve done?
what makes you happy?
what makes you sad?
what makes you angry?